[MUSIC]
So, there are a lot of services out there,
and this lectural talk about some of these
online services, these web based services,
and public ones that anybody can access.
We'll just talk about what
they're like and using them.
We're not going to go through all of
them because there are far too many,
but we'll give an example.
So, we're going to look at an example
API on Sentiment Analysis,
that's what it does.
Now, I bring up this example only because
I've used it in the recent past for
some research that I'm doing.
So, this is just one out of hundreds and
hundreds of different API's that
are out there that you can use.
Let me talk about what Sentiment Analysis
is, so you can get a little background.
So the idea is Sentiment Analysis analyzes
text to determine if it is positive or
negative, if it has a positive
sentiment or a negative sentiment.
It's trying to look at some aspect
of the meaning of the sentence.
So for instance you got a sentence,
I love cats.
Oh, I hate cats.
You get a negative one score and
I love cats you get a positive one score.
And there can be intermediate sentiments.
I'm okay with cats.
Maybe you get a zero score,
something like that.
So the question is really, with sentiment
analysis, is this sentence expressing,
or maybe a sequence of sentences
is expressing a positive or
negative sentiment.
So when do people use something
like Sentiment Analysis?
Say you want to look up movie reviews,
you want to see if this is a good movie.
So what you do is,
you might go through Twitter and
look at everybody's comments
related to that movie.
So search through Twitter for all the
comments that have that movie title in it,
and see if their sentiments
are positive or negative.
And if you see people are people
are talking about Star Wars, and
95% of the sentiments in their discussion
of Star Wars is positive, then you say oh,
everyone loves Star Wars.
Right, so you get sort of a broad idea,
how people feel about something.
So that's an example of the type of thing
you would use Sentiment Analysis for.
Sentiment Analysis is a complicated task.
It's computationally complex and
a Raspberry Pi would not
be able to do it by itself.
Also it requires a lot of data,
learned data.
They typically use machine
learning to learn the patterns,
but that type of thing, your Raspberry Pi,
you might not want to perform that
operation on your Raspberry Pi.
It wouldn't happen fast enough
to do what you need to do.
So what happens is oh and
another thing would it not only it would
not happen fast enough but the techniques
that companies use for this that
are relatively fast, they are proprietary.
These companies don't want to release
their secrets about how they do this
so effectively.
So what they do is they
provide you with this API.
So actually this company, the company
that I use AlchemyAPI is owned by IBM.
And so, you know IBM doesn't want to
reveal their secrets, alchemy API doesn't
want to reveal their secrets so They let
you request answers from their server.
So you can send them some text or
link to a webpage and
their tool will go and do the Sentiment
Analysis and send you the results.
So that's the idea.
[COUGH] Now you can download their SDK and
use their API.
So this is what I do,
I download their SDK and
then provides me with a set of functions
that allow me to access their service.
And, so I use those.
I don't actually even know,
I've seen it once.
But I don't pay attention to
what details the API are.
I don't look at the message format.
I just use their SDK.
So you download their SDK,
it's still under your machine and
then call the function.
Now I say it may not work on Raspberry Pi.
I actually use this API on just
a regular desktop Linux box that I have.
That's where I use it.
Raspberry Pi,
it should work on Raspberry Pi, actually.
I have not tried it on a Raspberry Pi,
so I'm not going to guarantee it, but
I'm not sure, I don't know 100% their
SKD actually installs on a Raspberry Pi.
But you could try it.
But this is idea though,
this is the same idea.
This SDK may or
may not install on Raspberry Pi, but
generally this is what you would do.
You'd download their SDK,
install it on your machine.
Then, let me give you an example
of what it might look like,
the little piece of code that
involves the AlchemyAPI's SDK.
So let's say I want to check a webpage and
scan it's content and
find out a sentiment.
So I look at the webpage and
see this webpage is on Star Wars.
And I want to look at it to see if
it's a positive or negative sentiment.
So the webpage is written in HTML,
as webpages are.
So here's an example of a program
in Python that uses the AlchemyAPI.
First I start off, I import.
From AlchemyAPI I import
the AlchemyAPI: Class.
That gives me a bunch of
methods I'm going to need.
Then I demo HTML.
The demo HTML is just an HTML string
that I'm going to want to analyze.
It just says AlchemyAPI works on HTML.
It could say anything.
So that's my string that I'm
going to demonstrate this on.
And then the next line is
response to equals, and in red,
I have highlighted the AlchemyAPI method.
AlchemyAPI.sentiment.
So that's the call.
Now it takes as an argument,
actually we're showing it,
we're taking two arguments.
First argument tells you
the type of data you're sending.
How it's formatted and that's HTML.
Because this demo to HTML,
it's HTML format.
So we say HTML.
And then the next thing,
the second argument,
is the actual text that
you want to process.
Demo to HTML in this case.
So calling that function
AlchemyAPI.sentiment creates a message
appropriately formatted and
sends it to the AlchemyAPI web servers.
Their servers receive it and
then look at the demo HTML,
process it, and
then they get a response back.
They send a bunch of data back but
I'm more interested in the score.
The score they give is actually
is negative one to positive one
depending on what you send it.
So they send back the score.
So, if score and
response now docSentiment.
Okay so what that's doing is,
essentially what that's doing is checking
if the response has a score in it.
Now we haven't gone through
this aspect of Python but
the response Is actually a dictionary,
what's called a dictionary.
So, document sentiment is
a field inside a dictionary.
But trust me on this, so,
if there's a score inside that,
then it just prints the score.
Print, score, and then it prints
a response doc sentiment score.
And that's that.
So, that's an example of a little
piece of code that uses their
API to get the response that I need
to perform the operation that I want.
And it's a free API in this case,
to a limit.
You can make a certain number
of requests per day for free.
And actually, as with a lot of these APIs,
where they have these pay options,
they come before you do all this, you
have to register yourself and get a key.
If you don't have the key,
then you can't do any of this.
But [LAUGH] because you need the key so
you can trace who you are and
they can limit you the way they want to,
which is very common with these APIs.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]